Title: Working on Google Drive to Make Spreadsheets and Notes.

1. Creating a Google Account:
Step 1: Open Google Chrome
Step 2 : go to the [Google Account Creation 
Page](https://accounts.google.com/signup). 
Step 3: Enter your name
Step 4: Enter your birthday and gender
Step 5: Create a Gmail address for signing in to your Google Account
Step 6: Create a strong password.
Step 7: Enter your phone number for verification.
Step 8: Google will send a verification code via SMS. Enter the code 
when prompted
Step 9: Provide a recovery email
Step 10: Agree to the terms and conditions.
Step 11: Your Google account will be created, and you'll be redirected 
to your Google dashboard


A)For Google Sheets:
Step 1: Open Google Chrome
Step 2: search for google account sign in
Step 3: click on the google apps
Step 4: click on the google drive
Step 5: On the Google Drive home page, click the + New button in the top-left 
corner.
Step 6: From the dropdown menu, select Google Sheets
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
(Or) Search Google Sheets on the browser and click on the official link of Google 
Workspace
Step 7: Sign in to Google Sheets and select a blank document.
Step 8: A new spreadsheet will open in a new tab. You can start editing it by 
entering data into the cells.
Step 9: Make a random table.
Step 10: Rename the document as needed.
Step 11: click on “in my Drive” option.
Step 12: Now create a folder by clicking on the button on bottom left 
of dialog box
Step 13: Open the folder and click on “Move” button:
Step 14: Click on move :
Step 15: Practical has finished, now you can see the folder with the file 
created in your respective Google Drive account


b)For Google Docs:
Step 1: Open Google Chrome
Step 2: search for google account sign in
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 3: click on the google apps
Step 4: click on the google drive
Step 5: On the Google Drive home page, click the + New button in the top-left 
corner.
Step 6: From the dropdown menu, select Google Docs
(or) Search Google Sheets on the browser and click on the official link 
of Google Workspace
Step 7: select a blank document.
Step 8: Open it and write a random paragraph
Step 9: Rename the document as needed.
Step 10: click on “in my Drive” option:
Step 11: click on “in my Drive” option:
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 12: Now create a folder by clicking on the button on bottom left :
Step 13: Click on move :
Step 14: Practical has finished, now you can see the folder with the file 
created in your respective Google Drive account.




Title: Installation and Configuration of JustCloud.

Step 1:Open your browser (e.g., Chrome, Firefox, or Edge).
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 2:In the address bar at the top, type 
https://www.justcloud.com/download and hit Enter.
Step 3 :click on the Download Application download will automatically start

2. Install JustCloud:
Step 1: Once the file is downloaded, go to your Downloads folder. Look for the 
JustCloud installer file (JustCloud_WebInstaller .exe for Windows or .dmg for 
macOS).
Step 2: Double-click the installer file with the left mouse button to start the 
installation process
Step 3: If prompted by a security warning, click "Yes"
Step 4: click on Install button

Step 5 : Once completed, click "Finish" to launch JustCloud.

2. Create or Log into Your JustCloud Account :
Step 1 : After installation, JustCloud will automatically open.
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 2: On the login screen
 
• If you already have an account, enter your username and password and click 
"Log In" with the left mouse button.
• If you don’t have an account, click "Sign Up" at the bottom left of the screen


3. Set Up Backup:
1) Once logged in, you’ll see the JustCloud dashboard.
2) On the dashboard, find the Settings icon (gear symbol) in the top right.
3) Click "Backup Settings" on the left side.
4) Choose the file types (photos, music, documents) you want to back up by 
checking the boxes.
5) Select the folders you want by clicking "Browse" on the right side.
6) Click "Apply".


4. Start the Backup:
1) Click the "Start Backup" button in the center of the screen.
2) JustCloud will begin backing up your files.
3) Watch the progress bar at the bottom.


5. Restore Files:
1) If you want to restore files, click the "Restore" tab at the top left.
2) Pick the files or folders you want to restore, then click "Restore Now" on 
the bottom right.




Title: Implementing Virtual Machines with VirtualBox:


1) Download and Install VirtualBox:
Step 1: Go to Google Chrome.
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 2: Search for “Oracle VM VirtualBox” on a browser and click on the 
 official link 
Step 3: click on the Download VirtualBox 7.0. 20
Step 4: Choose your operating system (Windows, macOS, Linux) header select 
your "VirtualBox Platform Packages" and click the corresponding link.
Step 5: Wait for Downloading file
 Step 6: Once the file is downloaded, go to your Downloads folder. Look for the Just 
installer file
Step 7: Double-click the installer file with the left mouse button to start the 
installation process
Step 8: After installation is complete, launch VirtualBox.


2. Download an Operating System ISO
Step 1: Select an OS: Visit the official website of your preferred operating 
system (e.g., Ubuntu)
Step 2: click on the Download 24.04 LTS
Step 3 : Downloading is started 


3. Create a New Virtual Machine:
Step 1 : Open VirtualBox: Launch VirtualBox from your desktop or Start menu.
 Click on the machine Located at the top-left of the VirtualBox window.
Step 2 : Click on "New" buttonStep 3: A pop-up window titled "Create Virtual Machine" will appear
Step 4: In the "Name" field, give a name to your VM.
Step 5: Select the Type of the OS (e.g ubuntu, Linux, Windows) 
Step 6 : Set the Username and Password Click "Next."
Step 7: Allocate Memory (Select the size of memory & no of CPU cores you want to 
allocate to your VM) Click "Next."
Step 8: Create a Virtual Hard Disk (Select the size of storage you want to 
allocate) Click "Next."
Step 9: Summary(Verify if the information about your VM is correct ) click on 
finish
Step 10: Start the VM(In the main VirtualBox window, click the Start button at the top)
Step 11: Now you need to setup your OS click on the Ubuntu(safe Graphics)
Step 12: naw you can used the ubuntu.


Title: Setting up a Cloud Environment with OpenStack .



1. Create a New Virtual Machine:


Step 1 : Open VirtualBox: Launch VirtualBox from your desktop or Start menu.
 Click on the machine Located at the top-left of the VirtualBox window.
Step 2 : Click on "New" button
Step 3: A pop-up window titled "Create Virtual Machine" will appear
Step 4: In the "Name" field, give a name to your VM.
Step 5: Select the Type of the OS (e.g ubuntu, Linux, Windows) 
Step 6 : Set the Username and Password Click "Next."
Step 7: Allocate Memory (Select the size of memory & no of CPU cores you want to 
allocate to your VM) Click "Next."
Step 8: Create a Virtual Hard Disk (Select the size of storage you want to 
allocate) Click "Next."
Step 8: Summary(Verify if the information about your VM is correct ) click on finish
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 8: Start the VM(In the main VirtualBox window, click the Start button at the top)
Step 8: Now you need to setup your OS click on the Ubuntu(safe Graphics)
Step 9: naw you can used the ubuntu


2. Steps to Install OpenStack on Ubuntu VM Click on the terminal :

Step 1: Update Ubuntu System

Step 2: Create a Stack User

Step 3: Install OpenStack DevStack on Ubuntu
Once you have successfully created the user ‘stack’ and assigned sudo 
privileges, switch to the user using the command.


Step 4: Create devstack configuration file :

Step 5: Start DevStack Installation

Step 6: Accessing OpenStack on a web browser:







Title: Setting Up a Simple Website on GitHub:


1. Create a GitHub Repository
Step 1: Search for GitHub in a browser.
Step 2: Log in to your GitHub account.
Step 3: On the top-right corner, click the + icon, then select New 
repository from the dropdown.
Step 4: Name your repository (e.g., my-website), set it to Public, and 
tick the "Initialize this repository with a README" option..
Step 5:Click the "Create repository" button (bottom of the form).
 
2: Upload Your Website Files
Step 1: Click the "Add file" button (top-right side).
Step 2: Select "Upload files" from the dropdown.
Step 3:select all files(Ctrl + A)
Step 4: Drag and drop your website files (HTML, CSS, images) into 
the upload area or click the "choose your files" button to browse.
Step 5: uploading the files
Step 6: After uploading the files, scroll down and click the "Commit 
changes" button (bottom-left).


3: create link
Step 1: Click on the "Settings" tab (top-right corner of the repository page).
Step 2: On the left sidebar, scroll down and select "Pages".

Step 3 :In the "Source" section, select the branch as "main" and folder 
as "/ (root)".
Step 4 : click on save (wait for some time)
506 Lab on Cloud Computing Page No
Step 5: create link for files are upload
Step 6:uploading 
Step 7: In the "Pages" section we can create link

4: View Your Live Website
Step 1: copy the url paste on google chrome or (Click on the Visit site)




Title: Introduction to Cloud CRM (Salesforce).




1: Create a Salesforce Developer Account
Step1: Go to Google Chrome.
Step 2: Search for “Developer Edition Signup” on a browser and click on the 
 official link 
Step 3: Fill in your details:
Step 4: Click on: "Sign Me Up" (Right side button)
Step 5: Verify your email:


A) Go to Google Chrome.
B) Search for “Email” on a browser and click on the official link
C)Check your inbox for the verification email from Salesforce.
D) Click on the link in the email to verify your account.( Change Your Password )


2: Log into Salesforce Developer Account
Step1: Go to Google Chrome.
Step 2: Search for “ Salesforce login ” on a browser and click on the 
 official link 
Step 3: Enter your
• Username (email you used for signing up)
• Password 


3: Understand the Salesforce Interface
Step 1:Enter Salesforce: Once logged in, you'll be in your Salesforce 
environment.
Step 2:Go to the App Launcher: On the top left, you'll see the App Launcher 
(the icon with 9 dots).
Step 3: Search for "Accounts": In the search bar within the App Launcher, type 
"Accounts" and select it.
Step 4: Create a New Account: Once you're in the Accounts section, click on 
the "New" button to create a new account.
Step 5:Fill in Account Information: Provide the account details
Step 6:Save the New Account: After filling out the account details, click "Save" 
to create the new account.
Step 7 :Open the New Account: Once saved, you'll be taken to the new 
account's page.
Step 8: Create a New Contact: In the account’s details page, look for the 
"Contacts" section and click "New" to add a new contact.
Step 9 :Fill in Contact Information: Enter the contact details, like:
Step 10 : Send an Email: In the new contact's page, go to the "Activity" section 
on the right side. 
Step 11 :Here, you'll see an option to send an email.
Step 12:Here, send an email to Contact.



Title: Data Analytics on the Cloud (Salesforce):


1. Log in to Salesforce:

Step 1: Open Google Chrome
Step 2: search for salesforce login
Step 3: Enter your username and password, and click the "Log in" 
button (top-right side).
Step 4: Verify your identity in Salesforce

Step 5: Once logged in, you will be on the Salesforce dashboard.
Step 6: Once logged in, you will be on the Salesforce dashboard.

2 .Navigate to the Reports Tab

Step 1: Click the "App Launcher" button (top-left corner, represented 
by 9 dots).
Step 2: Search for "Reports" in the search bar and click on the 
"Reports" tab (left-side list).
Step 3: This will take you to the Reports section where you can 
manage and create reports.


3: Create a New Report

Step 1: On the Reports page, click the "New Report" button (top-right 
corner).
Step 2: Select All then you select the type of report you want to create 
(e.g., Accounts, Opportunities, Leads).
Step 3: Click the "Start Report" button (right).


4: Customize Your Report

Step 1: Choose your data filters by clicking on the "Filters" pane (left 
side).
Step 2: Click on the Created Date
Step 3: Click on the Range select All Time and Click on the Apply
Step 4: Click on Update Preview Automatically on the (top-right 
corner).
Step 5: Add Filter
Step 6: I can select the Rating
Step 7: Go to the Value and select any one from the dropdown list
Step 8: the report will be sorted according to the filters you’ve applied:
Step 9: After running the report, click the "Save & Run" button (topright corner).
Step 10: Enter a name for your report (e.g., "Sales Performance 
Report") and choose a folder to save it in.
Step 11: Click the "Save" button (bottom-right).


5.Create a Dashboard for Data Visualization


Step 1: Go to the App Launcher button (top-left corner, represented by 
9 dots).
Step 2: Search for "Dashboards" and click on it (left-side list).
Step 3: On the Dashboards page, click the "New Dashboard" button 
(top-right corner).
Step 4: Enter a dashboard name (e.g., "Sales Overview") and select a 
folder to save it in.
Step 5: Click the "Create" button (bottom-right).

6: Add Components to the Dashboard

Step 1: Click on "Add Component" (top-right corner).
Step 2:Click on the Chart or Table
Step 3: Choose a report from the list (you can use the one you created 
earlier).
Step 4: Click the "Add" button (bottom-right).
Step 5: You can drag and drop components on the dashboard to arrange 
them.
Step 6: You can also add an image to your dashboard by clicking on the 
“Widget” dropdown and clicking on “Image” button:
Step 7: You can now browse and select an image you would like to add to your 
dashboard scale(stretch) click on add


7: Save and View the Dashboard


Step 1: After adding all necessary components, click the "Save" button (topright corner)
Step 2: Click the "Done" button (bottom-right) to view your completed 
dashboard.



Title: Introduction to Amazon AWS S3:


Step-by-Step Instructions:
Step 1: Go to Google.
Step 2: Search for the official AWS website (or directly go to 
aws.amazon.com).
Step 3: Once you're on the official AWS website, click on "Create an AWS 
account" at the top right.
Step 4: Enter your root user email address and AWS account name, then click 
on "Verify email address"
Step 5: Enter the verification code that you received in your email.
Step 6 : Set a password for your AWS account and confirm it by 
entering it again.
Page No.
Step 7 : Fill in your contact information (full name, phone number, 
address, etc.).
Step 8: Enter your billing information (credit/debit card number, etc.).
Step 9: Ensure your card has domestic e-commerce transactions 
activated. If it's not activated, you won't be able to complete the signup 
process.

(If you can enter the AWS cloud)
Once domestic e-commerce transactions are activated, you can 
successfully enter the AWS cloud platform.


Step 1: Now you are in the AWS Management Console (Dashboard).
Step 2: In the search bar at the top left, type S3 
Step 3: select S3 from the dropdown.
Step 4: On the Amazon S3 page, click on "Create bucket".
Page No.
Step 5: In the Create bucket page, 
Step 6: choose an AWS Region (select the region closest to you), 
Step 7: Enter a name for your bucket (make sure it is globally unique).
Step 8: Scroll down to the Block Public Access section. Uncheck the box to allow public 
access (if you want your site to be publicly accessible).
Step 9: Scroll down and click on "Create bucket".
Step 10: You will see a message indicating that the bucket was successfully created.
Step 11: Click on the name of the newly created bucket.
Step 12: In the bucket, click on "Upload" to upload your website files (HTML, CSS, 
etc.)..
Step 13: Click on "Add files" to upload your files.
Step 14: Select your HTML and CSS files and click "Open".
Step 15: Click "Upload" to upload the files to your bucket.
Step 16: A pop-up will appear, showing that the upload was successful.
Step 17:Click "Close" to return to the bucket page. 
Step 18:Back in the bucket page
Step 19: Go to the "Permissions" tab in your bucket settings.
Step 20: Scroll down to the Bucket Policy section and click "Edit".
Step 21:By default, access is private. You need to add a bucket policy 
to make the files public
Step 22: Click on the save Changes
Step 23: Bucket policy
Step 24: Click on Edit
Step 25: Generate the policy: Paste the following code into the Bucket Policy 
Step 26:Click on the Save Changes
Step 27:Back in the bucket page
Step 28: Click on the name of the newly created bucket.
Step 29:Click on the upload the files on your bucket.
Step 30:Object url is there click on that
Step 31:You can access you file



